# CS-330-Comp-Graphics

# How do you approach designing and developing software?

My approach for designing and developing software is pretty basic compared to some. I start out by reading whatever info/data or prompt that is given to me that runs through the basics of the project. From this, I start to determine what the requirements are for the project and then I analyze what they mean for me. After this, I break the requirements into three groups: non-functional requirements, functional requirements, and UI requirements. Breaking the requirements down like this makes it easier for me to understand what I am doing for each aspect of the project in terms of coding and designing. Once I have the requirements all figured out, I determine the best place for me to start working. Usually, I will design a base UI first to get an idea of how the project will flow. (This is if a UI is being used for the project) This leads me into creating prototypes or wireframes of the UI to see how the code can interact with the user through a UI. After making a base UI design, I pick where a part of the project where the code will be very major towards the operation of the app. Usually, this is the start of the code for an application or some part of the application that acts as a base for the other parts of code in the app. At this point, I work on one piece of functionality at a time until I meet all of the requirements. Meanwhile, throughout the entire process of writing code, I make sure to test as often as possible. Once I have all my code written, I make sure to sit down and test the project as much as possible before submitting it.

From the project in this course, I have only gained limited design skills. The major thing I learned is that it is important to keep projects as simple and organized as possible. Keeping projects simple in terms of file structure and design is crucial to making sure it is easy to work with the project. In the future, I will most likely continue to use the same, or very similar design process for other projects because of how useful it is. However, I may try to implement a better file structure and overall project organization to my projects in the future for the sake of making my work easier. In terms of new development strategies I learned from working on this project, the major one was utilizing abstraction in my projects. Abstraction is a very useful tool when working with larger projects, and it was insanely useful for this final project because of how many parts and different apsects were involved in the code. Another development strategy that I learned to use more from this project was the process of taking breaks and working on things in increments. I also learned to utilize a vast amount of learning resources more often because of how useful they can be when trying to solve problems or fix errors. Over the course of the milestone assignments in this course, I can definitely say that my approach to developing code has become more refined. Working through the milestones made me realize that most projects come together in increments, and that when you truly want to figure something out regarding the project's code, you can figure it out by spending the time to sift through things.

# How can Computer Science help me in reaching my goals?

In general, Computer Science can help me reach my goals in life in many ways. Personally, I want to obtain a job in the IT field because I love working with, and on, computers! I also enjoy programming a fair bit. The same goes for designing UIs. They allow me to be very creative, which is very enjoyable for me. In terms of computational graphics and visualizations, I personally do not see myself wanting to work with them in my future. This course has made me realize that working with computer visualizations using libraries/systems such as Vulcan or OpenGL are not easy or fun to work with. I am more inclined to work with UI development or database engineering. I find both topics to be enjoyable, while also satisfying for me. As for the knowledge I gained from working with computer graphics and visualizations in this course, I feel that I have a better understanding of some basic coding concepts and C++. Plus, I feel that I have gained a better understanding of some of the math concepts behind computer graphics. Hopefully, I will be able to utilize some of the C++ and math skills I have gained from the work in this course. As I do not plan to work in the computer graphics side of the IT field, I feel that the most I have gained from this course is more practice with C++ and programming, and better understanding of computational math. And in terms of my educational future, I may be able to apply some of the math concepts and 3D coding conepts I learned from this course for things like independent learning about game world development.
